spci-ext
-----
Scripts of generation of counter-fragments and calculation of fragments contributions in order to facilitate structural interpretation of QSAR models.


fragmentation.py
-----
Generates counter-fragments for calculation of descriptors and QSAR prediction.

There are three required options:
- input sdf or smiles files (-i option)
- output sdf or smiles file (-o)
- fragmentation scheme chosen across available ones (-f)

If compounds have explicit hydrogens and output is an sdf file:
1) it is recommended to remove detached single hydrogens remaining after removal of a counter-fragment (-x). In such a way you estimate contribution of the fragment with all attached hydrogens.
2) if software cannot calculate descriptors for compounds with free valence use option -a to automatically add hydrogens to cap free valence

If used descriptor software cannot calculate descriptors for multi-component counter-fragments just remove them from the output (-z). In such a case you will not be able to estimate contributions of scaffolds/linkers, only terminal fragments.


calc_contributions.py
-----
Calculates contributions from QSAR predictions for fragments generated by the previous script. Input file should contain two columns with name and predicted value separated by space or tab.


Help
-----
Call scripts with -h key.


Visualization of results
-----
I implemented visualisation with R package rspci: https://github.com/DrrDom/rspci
To install it run in R console:
'''
devtools::install_github("DrrDom\rspci")
'''
To load data:
'''
df <- rspci::load_data_ext(file_name_with_contributions.txt)
'''
and then as described in rspci package.


License
-----
GPLv3
